{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24360\viewh14580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SMI-12 
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl200\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Medical Device Security 
\f0\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 What are the current issues with medical device security? How can security be improved in this area? \
Burns, A. J., Johnson, M. E., & Honeyman, P. (2016). A brief chronology of medical device security. Communications of the ACM, 59(10), 66\'9672. http://doi.org/10.1145/2890488\
\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?list=PLn0nrSd4xjjbIHhktZoVlZuj2MbrBBC_f&time_continue=21&v=8BgxQd4iT5U\
\'97>03.10.2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 In the past 30 years there have been several incidents in hospitals and the local system architectures. Especially medical devices had been of great interest for hackers. In the following, I will explain the past events of cyber threats and other attacks on medical devices which caused lots of trouble for every party in the healthcare sector.\
When we go back to the year 2013, the US Government took notice on a project called \'84Trustworthy Health and Wellness (ThaW)\'93\'93 against threats on medical devices. This project was founded by the NSF (Public Health and Safety Organization) with the goal \'84to authenticate clinical staff to tablet computers\'93 and \'84to provide patients a usable way to control the information that mobile sensors collect about them\'93 (https://thaw.org/about/; seen October, 5 2017). But why did the government took notice of the danger so lately? To explain the problem of security beyond devices which collect medical data, we should take a look at the \'84Therac-25\'93 (a radiation accelerator) which had caused lots of trouble and harm to the patients.\
From June 1985 to January 1987, the \'84Therac-25\'93 had been used for patients suffering from tumors. But there were some differences between the \'84Therac-25\'93 and its previous models. With the new radiation accelerator it was possible to regulate the intensity of radiation from outside the treatment room. That function disburdened the attacks from hackers and unauthorized persons. As a consequence of the user errors, faulty software engineering and insufficient training support 6 people died.\
But the \'84Therac-25\'93 was only the beginning of the attacks on hospitals and medical devices. Actually, hospitals consider primarily treating people and helping to improve their health than thinking about security. In fact, many other institutions (e.g. financial services) cared about security earlier than health care institutions.\
In the year 2002, there was a BIDMC (Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center) network failure triggered by researchers who flooded the network with data. The impact caused delays in access to critical information and IT-systems and deteriorated the network diagnoses. After that happened, the principal point of failure was declared as a software program for directing traffic on the network. The program was overwhelmed by a combination of data volume and network complexity that exceeded the software specifications. Thus, security problems can not only be triggered by unauthorized access but also by violation of the product\'92s specifications. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 The 4 inflection points on medical devices\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 According to the arcticle \'84A Brief Chronology of Medical Device Security\'93 (Burns, A. J., Johnson, M. E., & Honeyman, P. (2016). A brief chronology of medical device security. Communications of the ACM, 59(10), 66\'9672. http://doi.org/10.1145/2890488) there have been four inflection points on medical devices. \
In the years from 1985 to 2000 (first period) especially broader, complex systems in hospitals had been attacked by unauthorized people which produced accidental disasters. In the 2000\'92s (second period), there had been an increase of implantable medical devices, such as implantable cardiac defibrillators. 2005 a 21 years old cardiac patient died from an implant. As a consequence the HCMSS (High Confidence Medical Device Software and System) developed a roadmap for overcoming crucial incidents and challenges concerncing the design, manufacture, certification and use of medical device security. The third period, also called the threat of unauthorized access to devices that could cause harm took place in the years from 2006 until now. In the year 2006, there had been several software updates for embedded systems (interfaces that allowed clients to acknowledge and install updates) which made it easier and susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks. 2011 there had been executed peer-reviewed defenses against unauthorized access to implantable medical devices. So called \'84Radio Frequency Shields\'93 had been used for acting as a proxy for communications with implantable medical devices which actively prevented any device other than itself from communicating with the implantable mobile device by jamming all other communications. The forth and last period (2012 until now) includes cyber threats to medical device security. The cause of this impact were the manufacturing of medical devices which were able to connect directly (but also indirectly) to the Internet/network (LAN/WLAN). On the one hand, the devices allowed the real-time monitoring of patients and improved the software management (e.g. remote installation of software updates). But on the other hand, cybersecurity threats had become prevalent in the network age so that the protection of medical devices is more critical that of other device types. As an answer to this problem a FDA (Food and Drug Administration) draft guidance for the management of cybersecurity in medical devices had been published in June, 2013. The draft deals with the identification of assets, threats, vulnerabilities and the assessment of the impact of threats on device functionality and users or patients. Furthermore, the draft includes the likelihood of a threat and of a vulnerability being exploited as well as the determination of risk levels and mitigation strategies. It claims the assessment of residual risk and risk acceptances criteria. Not only the FDA published a solution against cyber threats, also the NIST (National Institute of Standards and Technology received so called \'84Trust challenges\'93 (2013-2016), including hardware failures, software errors, radio attacks, malware and vulnerability exploits and side-channel attacks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Situation in Germany\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 In the year 2015 several tomographs (Positron Emission Tomography and Single-Photon-Emissions-Tomography) from Siemens had been used in german hospitals. At that time it was already common that the tomographs had security holes such as they were easy to hack by attackers from outside the network. One reason for that danger has been the operation system under which the tomography had been running. As the US agency ICS-CERT (Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team) has published that there had been security holes in tomographs from Siemens they also mentioned that one of the main risks had been Windows 7. Furthermore there were so-called \'93Exploits-Coder\'93 which can be used without any expert knowledge. As a consequence, attackers can \'93speak\'94 over the network with the devices by accessing the network of the hospital. As a solution, Siemens has claimed that there will be available \'93security updates\'94 for all affected tomographs. But in fact, they only mentioned the updates as a brief security note. Actually, the date (until which day) the patches will be available for users had not been published yet.\
\
\
\
\
 }